---
title: 'Star Wars: The Old Republic: Revan'
isbn: 9780345511355
shelf: currently-reading
updated: 11-12-2020
---

## Contents
<div markdown class="contents">

  - [x] [Prologue](#prologue)
  - [x] [Chapters 1 & 2](#chapters-1--2)
  - [x] [Chapter 3](#chapter-3)
  - [x] [Chapter 4](#chapter-4)
  - [x] [Chapter 5](#chapter-5)
  - [x] [Chapter 6](#chapter-6)
  - [x] [Chapter 7](#chapter-7)
  - [x] [Chapter 8](#chapter-8)
  - [x] [Chapter 9](#chapter-9)
  - [x] [Chapter 10](#chapter-10)
  - [x] [Chapter 11](#chapter-11)
  - [x] [Chapter 12](#chapter-12)
  - [X] [Chapter 13](#chapter-13)
  - [X] [Chapter 14](#chapter-14)
  - [X] [Chapter 15](#chapter-15)
  - [ ] Chapter 16
  - [ ] Chapter 17
  - [ ] Chapter 18
  - [ ] Chapter 19
  - [ ] Chapter 20
  - [ ] Chapter 21
  - [ ] Chapter 22
  - [ ] Chapter 23
  - [ ] Chapter 24
  - [ ] Chapter 25
  - [ ] Chapter 26
  - [ ] Chapter 27
  - [ ] Chapter 28
  - [ ] Chapter 29

</div>

## Prologue
###### (Revan)

...

## Chapters 1 & 2
###### (Scourge)

In classic Sith fashion, Darth Nyriss puts Lord Scourge to the test as he arrives back on <em>Dromund Kaas</em>, after two years aways following his graduation from the Sith academy, to aid her in uncovering the people behind a recent string of assassination attempts on her life. Now, returning as a fully-fledged Sith Lord, Scourge quickly realizes that he must subdue his own arrogance if he is to win the trust of Darth Nyriss.

## Chapter 3
###### (Revan)

On Coruscant, Revan & T3-M4 visit the Galactic Market to meet up with an old ally, Canderous Ordo, a Mando who helped Revan take down Darth Malak. Now, having nightmares of a lightning covered planet and wanting answers to his forgotten memories as a Sith Lord, Revan calls on Canderous to help him regroup the Mando clans by finding the lost <em>Mask of Mandalore</em> so they can join the Republic to face this impending threat.

## Chapter 4
###### (Scourge)

Scourge and Sechel, advisor to Darth Nyriss, arrive at Hallion on a mission to break into the UDM<sup><a href="#fn-4-1" class="fn-num">1</a></sup> plant in order to uncover the origins of a modified UDM assassin droid used against Nyriss. With Sechel unable to slice into the records office, Scourge bypasses it with a lightsaber but trips the alarm. By dispatching waves of assault droids and killing power to the plant they manage to escape with the records.

<hr/>

<p>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-4-1" class="fn-num">1</a>. Uxiol Droid Manufacturing
  </small>

</p>

## Chapter 5
###### (Revan)

Revan visits the Jedi Temple to see if the Archives might have info on Meetra Surik, a general under him during the MW. Meetra had activated a mass-shadow generator at Malachor V, decimating the planet and a majority of the Mando fleet with it, effectively ending the war but disappearing shortly after. Confronted by Jedi Atris, Revan (re)learns Meetra permanently cut herself off from the force and is still missing.

## Chapter 6
###### (Scourge)

A week after his last mission, a fully healed Scourge meets with Nyriss about his next steps. Sechel has traced the location of the assassin droid back to the planet Bosthirda. Skeptical of Sechel, Scourge is ordered to visit this planet with Sechel and Murtog (security capt.) and investigate further. But not before Nyriss gives him a Sith lesson about channeling his emotions inward when facing a non-organic enemy.

## Chapter 7
###### (Revan)

Revan and T3 meet back up with Cancerous Ordo. The Mando has news that the Clans are on the planet <em>Rekkiad</em> looking for the <em>Mask of Mandalore</em>. They plan to be there when it's found. Revan returns to Bastila with news of their new mission but Bastila has some news of her own. She is pregnant. They argue about not doing the mission but, Revan convinces her otherwise and they agree she should stay behind. Revan, T3, and Cancerous board the <em>Ebon Hawk</em> and leave for <em>Rekkiad</em>.

## Chapter 8
###### (Scourge)

Scourge, Sechel, Mertog, and Co. storm the separatist base on Bosthirda. Before the seps were able to delete their files Sechel uncovers a partial holo-recording seeming to implicate Darth Xedrix in the assassination plot.

The three reconvene with Nyriss back on <em>Dromund Kaas</em> and discuss this unsettling information. It confirms some suspicions Nyriss has had about Xedrix. They plan to assassinate Xedrix just as he has tried to do with Nyriss. Sechel is to send a fake separatist message to set up a meeting (ambush) with Xedrix. Scourge hopes, if the plan is successful, he can use this to his advantage to lay a path to his own seat on the Dark Council.

## Chapter 9
###### (Revan)

Arriving on <em>Rekkiad</em>, Revan, Canderous, and T3 have a rough time even locating the Ordo Clan camp - let alone trying to fly and land the <em>Ebon Hawk</em> on the ice planet during a snowstorm. With damaged landing gear they manage to make a rough landing 5km outside the camp. Donning all the winter gear they have they make out for the camp, leaving T3 to man and repair the ship.

They approach the camp and, among the tents and shacks, Revan happens to notice four large tarp covered mounds. Even though covered, he immediately recognized these as Basilisk War Droids - extremely powerful and lethal mechanical mounts the Mandos used during the MW. Revan had ordered them all to be destroyed at the end of the war but clearly not all of the clans listened.

During their scouting, a voice calls out from behind. Four Mando sentries with blasters hold them at gun point. Canderous immediately recognizes the voice and reveals himself to the sentries. Blasters are lowered and they exchange Mando greetings. They are brought to the central shack at the camp and more greetings are exchanged in Mando'a before a large and broad figure enters. Silence falls and this figure, removing layers to reveal a Mandalorian woman, exchanges a bitter greeting with Canderous. Veela, she greats Canderous, they talk of finding the <em>Mask of Mandalore</em>, and she addresses the outsider (Revan). Canderous introduces him as Avren (anagram of Revan). Veela welcomes him into the clan so long as he doesn't disrupt, betray, or slow them down; they exchange some witty/snarky remarks in Mando'a, amusing the rest of the clan. As she exits, Canderous explains Veela is his wife.

## Chapter 10
###### (Scourge)

Scourge waits in a cave on Bosthirda for a meeting with Darth Xedrix that Sechel was able to set up. Scourge, donning a Sith cloak and hiding in the rocks and shadows, hears a speeder arrive. Xedrix and two accompanying Sith acolytes - humans, one male one female, enter the cave. Scourge leaps from the shadows, igniting his lightsaber, towards Xedrix who was trailing behind. In the split second before Scourge lands his blow, Xedrix quickly ignites his saber and blocks the attack. The two acolytes rush in as Xedrix falls back. An intense lightsaber battle ensues between the three. During the fighting Scourge reaches out with the Force and is able to discern that the female is the stronger of the two and that they both have attachments for each other. Scourge uses this to his advantage by focusing attacks on the weaker male knowing that the female will attempt to save him and block any would-be fatal blows. Scourge leaps at the male and she attempts to block. In mid air he redirects his attack towards the female and manages to knock them both down. Scourge crushes the female's head with his foot and quickly turns to knock back the male with a force push. Before he is able get back to his feet, Scourge force throws his lightsaber to the male acolyte - decapitating him.

With the acolytes out of the way Scourge then approaches Darth Xedrix. Scourge cannot sense any emotion coming from Xedrix whatsoever -  he is producing a shield of dark side energy. Xedrix attempts to persuade Scourge that Nyriss is the real enemy. Scourge dismisses it and then Xedrix releases a burst of force lightning onto him electrocuting him near to death. Xedrix tries to further convince Scourge that Nyriss is using and manipulating him and he urges Scourge to join him. Scourge is able resist and see past the dark side persuasion, but then realizes that the veil of dark side energy surrounding Xedrix as fallen. Scourge is able to sense that Xedrix is fearful and drained of all his energy - confirming Nyriss' belief that Xedrix has become too old and weak to sustain his power. He approaches Xedrix knowing that he can no longer fight back but he tries to give one final plea to Scourge. Without hesitation Scourge delivers a fatal slash across his chest and removes his head to bring as proof of his demise back to Nyriss.

## Chapter 11
###### (Revan)

Revan awakens from a dream - <i>or rather a memory</i> - about him and Malak atop one of two large pillars of ice towering above a snow covered planet, the same planet of <em>Rekkiad</em> he is now on. Revan remembers this as the place he hid the <em>Mask of Mandalore</em>. Hungover from a night of celebrating with Canderous and his clan mates for their reunion, Revan contacts T3 with his holocomm and T3 is eager to report the ship has been repaired albeit still partially buried in snow. Revan asks T3 to do a surface scan of the area for any rock/ice formations matching the description of those from Revan's recalled memory and quicky finds a match. With the coordinates in hand, Revan wakes Canderous with this new information. The two hold a meeting in the supply shack with Veela and the rest of the clan and they are able to convince her and the company to move camp 50km to these two pillars, which are known to the clan as the _Twin Spears_, even though another Mandalorian clan, Jendri, has already claimed them under their territory.

The next morning, with military like efficiency, the clan packed-up camp and made out for the _Twin Spears_. Marching two by two with a forward scouting group, and using the Basilisk War Droids to tow supply crates, it takes them the whole day to travel ⅔-rds  of the way there. They setup camp for the night in a nearby valley. The next morning they head-on to the _Twin Spears_, moving extra cautiously since they are now deep into Clan Jendri territory. Finally reaching the ice pillars they setup camp once more near the base of the _Spears_.

During the early hours of the next morning Clan Jendri began their attack on the Ordo camp. Feeling the disturbance through the force, Revan woke before the alarm sounded. Canderous was already out in the midst of battle. Revan bolted out of the tent with twin blasters in hand. Amongst the chaos he saw that 4 of Clan Jendri's Basilisk War Droids were in flight laying waste down onto the battlefield but all 6 of Clan Ordo's war droids were still grounded. He shoots his way over to the droids and finds that Canderous, Veela, and the rest of the Basilisk pilots were stuck taking cover behind some snowy rocks from the other 4 Jendri droids. In a split decision to forgo his concealed identity, Revan leaps from behind the rocks and ignites his green lightsaber. Dodging and weaving, he's able to flank one of the Basilisks and jump on it's back - taking out the pilot with a lightsaber through the chest. Revan's distraction allowed the others to mount their Basilisks and take to the air. Now outgunning the Jendri they are easily able to take the battlefield and push them back, making them retreat.

With the battle won, the <em>Twin Spears</em> are now rightfully in Clan Ordo's territory. Veela acknowledges Revan/Avren as a Jedi (<i>although unsure if she yet knows his true identity</i>) and orders him to help with the wounded and to make preparations to scale the first of the two <em>Spears</em> the next morning.


## Chapter 12
###### (Scourge)

Scourge returns back to <em>Dromund Kaas</em> in the the dark of night without alerting Nyriss or anyone of his arrival. He sneaks into Sechel's quarters, awakening him at knife point and proceeds to interrogate him. Sechel hesitates on a few questions and Scrouge severs a couple of tendrils on his cheeks to get answers out of him. Sechel reveals that Nyriss has been using him, but not entirely in the way that Darth Xedrix had implied, and that, even though Xedrix really had been colluding with the separatists, he was <em><b>not</b></em> behind the assassination attempts on Nyriss.

Nyriss enters and interrupts the interrogation - commanding that Scourge follows her back to her quarters for a private conversation. Nyriss reveals to Scourge that she orchestrated the assassination attempts on herself as a means to put the blame on Darth Xedrix and further justify his killing. She also reveals that she is apart of a secret inner circle within the Dark Council whose goal is to bring down the Emperor. She explains that Xedrix had been apart of this inner circle but was becoming too reckless and was putting the circle and their plot at risk of being discovered by the Emperor.

She continues on stating that the Emperor has lived for thousands of years and has found an unorthodox & horrific way to cheat death that involves his hidden home planet of <em>Nathema</em>. Not only that, but he is planning to launch a full-scale war against the Republic & the Jedi Order out of anger and retaliation for the events that took place during the <em>Great Hyperspace War</em>. A war where the Republic & the Jedi Order very nearly eradicated the Sith Empire (<i>then led by the Sith Lord Naga Sadow</i>). So Nyriss and the rest of the circle have decided that the Emperor must be stopped, otherwise he will start another great war, one that her and the circle know that the Sith Empire cannot win.

After the long revelation, Nyriss essentially invites Scourge into this secret circle but informs him that they will be visiting the Emperors home world of <em>Nathema</em> so Scourge can witness the atrocities of the Emperor for himself.

## Chapter 13
###### (Revan)

That night after the battle, Clan Ordo had a funeral pyre for the dead (both Ordo and Jendri alike) and then celebrated long into the night for their victory. Revan sits back, moderating his ale intake, and watches the room. Veela and the other 5 Basilisk pilots cautiously keep an eye on Revan - now knowing that he is a Jedi. Revan's intuition tells him that Veela and the pilots still are most likely unaware of his true identity and will at least keep the knowledge of him being a Jedi from the rest of the clan for now. Edric, cousin and best clan-mate to Canderous<sup><a href="#fn-13-1" class="fn-num">1</a></sup>, approaches Revan and gives him praise for his efforts in the battle. After the celebrations Revan and Canderous return to their tent for the night.

In the morning, they begin preparing to summit the first of the <em>Twin Spears</em>. They were hoping for clearer weather but the wind and snow were relentless. Veela, the 5 others Basilisk pilots, Canderous, and Revan gear up and make their way to the base of pillar while Edric stays behind to lead the camp.

They began their slow and steady summit in 2 squads of 4, each with a tether connecting them all together. Placing one anchor after another, and shifting the tether up at each one, they climb.

After a long and strenuous climb, Revan and Canderous' group made it to the summit first. At one point one the climbers in Veela's group had slipped and fell. The tether caught them and they got back on track but it allowed the others to gain a significant lead. The top of the <em>Spears</em> were almost perfectly flat with no formations or other defining features. Revan uses his memories to guide him to the center of the plateau and uncovers a Durasteel hatch. He channels the force to help him pull open the hatch, revealing a deep, dark shaft with a ladder descending down into the <em>Spear</em>. Canderous orders the other two Mandalorians to stay on the plateau and wait for Veela and the others. They drop some glow sticks and start down the ladder.

Inside, they enter a large circular chamber carved out of the rock and ice with a large stone crypt in the center. Revan recalls that it is a tomb of an ancient Sith Lord. Entering the tomb Revan has another short flashback about <em>Mandalore the Ultimate</em><sup><a href="#fn-13-2" class="fn-num">2</a></sup>. Inside the tomb lies a sarcophagus at the center. Revan uses the force to lift off the lid. Despite there being no remains of the Sith Lord inside<sup><a href="#fn-13-3" class="fn-num">3</a></sup>, the <em>Mask of Mandalore</em> and a small cube Sith datacron lay there waiting. Picking up the mask, Revan flashbacks to another memory of him and Malak putting the Mask in the sarcophagus. His flashback is interrupted by Veela and the other Mandalorians entering the tomb. Furious, Veela lashes out at Revan for defiling the Mask while also revealing she has been aware of his true identity the moment he drew his lightsaber during battle the day before. Canderous tries to plea with Veela that Revan is a true ally and no longer the rivalrous Jedi they've come to hate. She does not yield. She rants about resenting Canderous for leaving after the <em>Mandalorian Wars</em> - not staying behind to help lead what remained of them. She demands that Revan die as punishment for his crimes against the Mandalorians. After lots of arguing Veela still does not yield, standing off with blasters drawn. She orders the other Mandos to kill them both.

Blasters fire. Revan is able to deflect a few shots, sending one back and taking out one of the Mandos. At the same time Canderous' blaster fire lands on another two Mandos taking them out. Revan and Canderous take cover behind the sarcophagus and Veela and the others retreat out of the entrance of the tomb. A second later a few grenades are thrown into the tomb landing at the sarcophagus. Right before the explode Revan grabs the sarcophagus lid with the force and quickly moves it in front of them as a shield. The stone lid absorbs what it can but the explosion rips through throwing Revan and Canderous back off their feet. Veela and the others zerg rush in all focusing fire on Revan. He dodges the fire and a second later a prone Canderous takes aim and lands a kill shot directly to Veela's heart. She collapses and everyone briefly pauses in astonishment. Reacting quickly, Revan whips his lightsaber sending it boomeranging past the remaining two Mandalorians - dispatching the both of them.

Revan catches his saber and then approaches Canderous who is still frozen in place since shooting his wife. He comes to and walks over to Veela, eyes still open staring at the ceiling. Canderous closes her eyelids and crosses her arm onto her chest. He slowly stands up, turns away and stares off into the distance. Revan apologizes to Canderous. He simply responds with a depressing, "Me too".

<hr/>

<p>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-13-1" class="fn-num">1</a>. Edric was also the one from Chapter 9 that called out from behind and held Revan & Canderous at gunpoint when they first arrived on <em>Rekkiad</em>.
  </small>
  <br>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-13-2" class="fn-num">2</a>. While on the plateau, descending the shaft, and inside the crypt, Revan experiences some profound Déjà vu and flashbacks from when he and Malak where last here to hide the <em>Mask of Mandalore</em> as well as some others including one about <em>Mandalore the Ultimate</em> - dying, removing his mask, and revealing that the Sith had coerced the Mandalorians in going to war with the Republic and the Jedi.
  </small>
  <br>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-13-3" class="fn-num">3</a>. Revan remembers that the sarcophagus was also empty the first time he and Malak had visited the tomb.
  </small>
</p>

## Chapter 14
###### (Revan)

Still dazed by what had just transpired, Canderous and Revan collect the rest of the bodies and line them up. Canderous is unsure of what to tell the rest of the Clan once they return. Revan offers up a story where they unexpectedly encountered guardian droids programmed to protect the crypt - saying Veela and the other died in battle as true warriors.

Canderous return to the sarcophagus and retrieves the <em>Mask of Mandalore</em> and the Sith datacron, asking Revan what was on the datacron. Revan states it is a chronicle of the Sith Lord Dramath the Second who was once buried here and goes on to explain that 1000 years ago, Lord Dramath the first ruled over a planet call <em>Medriaas</em>. But was over thrown by another Sith called Lord Vitiate, who took over rule of the planet and renamed it <em>Nathema</em>. Lord Dramath the second fled and took refuge on <em>Rekkiad</em><sup><a href="#fn-14-1" class="fn-num">1</a></sup>.

A confused Canderous questions what any of that has to do with <em>Mandalore the Ultimate</em> and why the mask and datacron were hidden together. Revan reaffirms the two are intertwined but insists on resting before explaining why.

The two attempted to rest before heading back down the <em>Spears</em>, but both were restless and found it difficult. After what little rest they could get, both awaken and prepare for the climb down. Revan tells Canderous he is ready to tell what he remembers about Mandalore and the datacron. Revan begins the tale.

Before Mandalore declared war on the Republic he was approached by a red-skinned Sith<sup><a href="#fn-14-2" class="fn-num">2</a></sup> who claimed to be an emissary of a descendant of the Sith Lord that had driven Dramath (the second) into exile. This Sith convinced Mandalore to help him search for his enemies tomb. And so Mandalore helped this Sith find Lord Dramath's tomb. The Sith took the Dramath's remains back to his master, and in return the Sith told Mandalore of a vision had by his master. One where the Mandalorians enter into a great war against the Republic and win. Canderous is skeptical that <em>Mandalore the Ultimate</em> could have been persuaded so easily. But Revan assures him that the Sith had used the dark side to twist and manipulate Mandalore's mind, eventually succeeding. It wasn't until Mandalore lay dying beneath Revan that influence of the dark side was truly lifted. Revan explains the Siths' reasoning behind starting the <em>Mandalorian Wars</em> was either to test and observe the Republic's resilience or to weaken them. At this point that's where Revan's knowledge and memories end. He doesn't know or remember to what extent the Sith Empire has returned, just that everything he has recalled so far points to the planet <em>Nathema</em>. Even the datacron contained the coordinates to the planet.

Revan plans to leave for <em>Nathema</em> as soon as they descend the <em>Spears.</em> Canderous is eager to join but Revan insists that he say behind, take the <em>Mask of Mandalore</em>, and continue to lead his people. Depending on what is discovered in the Unknown Regions, the galaxy could depend on the Mandalorians being united again. Canderous takes the mask and slides it over his head. He pronounces himself as <em>Mandalore the Preserver</em> and vows to restore the glory and honor to his people.

Revan returns to the <em>Ebon Hawk</em> and is greeted by an ecstatic T3. They enter in the coordinates to <em>Nathema</em> and take off.

<hr/>

<p>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-14-1" class="fn-num">1</a>. During this time, Dramath the second, gathered his followers and created the chambers and structures now present inside the <em>Twin Spears</em>.
  </small>
  <br>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-14-2" class="fn-num">2</a>. This was unusual since the Sith were though to be eradicated after the <em>Great Hyperspace War</em>.
  </small>
</p>

## Chapter 15
###### (Scourge)

<div markdown class="">
<a name="latest"></a>

A week after Nyriss invites Scourge into her inner circle, they depart for <em>Nathema</em> in an unmarked shuttle transport. After they enter Hyperspace, Nyriss begins telling Scourge the full backstory of the Emperor:

He was born under the name Tenebrae to a couple of farmers on the planet <em>Nathema</em>. As a child he had solid black eyes, he never once cried, and animals would not come near him. When he began to speak, his voice was un-natural and carried a weight that a child's voice should not have. He started to show signs of being force sensitive at age six. His father grew suspicions about his force sensitivity and confronted his mother about it. She admitted to having an affair with the Sith Lord that ruled over them (Dramath the First). This enraged the father and he attacked the mother. Tenebrae watched and fed on his father's anger. During the fighting he sunk into the dark side and snapped his father's neck with only a thought. Over the next months he slowly tortured his mother with the force and his thoughts, feeding on her fear and anguish until she, too, died. Over the next few years he would start gaining control of village after village forcing them under his control or killing and torturing those that refused. Eventually he had gained a significant reputation and influence, amassing a legion of both fearful and zealous followers, all the while killing thousands in the process.

Lord Dramath eventually took notice of Tenebrae's power and influence, barely remembering the commoner farmer that he had bore the child with. Dramath decided he would confront his bastard child and test his strength for himself in order to judge his worthiness of serving as a Sith Lord. Tenebrae, only ten at the time, did not intend to serve or die by his father. Even at a young age, he proved much more powerful than his father and was able to stripped him of his power and his mind - eventually driving him into fear and death. After three years, Tenebrae had took complete control over the entire planet, causing his half brother, Dramath the Second, to flee the system. At thirteen, he got the attention of the Lord of all Sith and ruler of the Sith Council, Marka Ragnos. Marka was impressed by the boy and even granted him the title, Lord Vitiate. As an official Sith Lord, Vitiate continued to rule over <em>Nathema</em> and research the power of the dark side for a hundred years. After Marka Ragnos fell, Vitiate did not attempt to claim his spot, nor did he join in the <em>Great Hyperspace War</em> or even the conflict between Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh afterward. But after the war ended, he called a great council of all the remaining Sith Lords at his palace on <em>Nathema</em><sup><a href="#fn-15-1" class="fn-num">1</a></sup>.

He invited them to take place in a ritual that would supposedly unlock the full potential of the dark side in each of them. However, when the other Sith Lords arrived on <em>Nathema</em> their minds immediately fell under Vitiate's control. He led them to his palace to undergo his ritual - one that would instead allow Vitiate to consume their essence and their power. It was the greatest and most complex feat of Sith Sorcery ever attempted. Vitiate channeled the dark side and began the ritual. He consumed them completely, absorbing all of their essence and power into himself. But the power of the ritual was so immense it was not simply confined to his palace and the other Sith Lords. His ritual created a massive vortex of dark side energy that spread over the entire planet. His palace just being the epicenter. Every man, woman, child - every living thing connected to the Force whatsoever was consumed and drained by the dark side vortex. After it had ended, nothing was left. Everything the vortex had touched was completely obliterated. <em>Nathema</em> was left empty and lifeless. All except for Vitiate. Having absorbed the life force and energy of the planet and everything on it, Vitiate was now immortal. That day he became the most powerful Sith of all time. That was the day he became the Emperor.

Nyriss and Scourge drop out of Hyperspace in front of a greyish-brownish planet. Other than its appearance it took a few moments for Scourge to realize that something was off. He started to feel something he had never experienced before. Looking out at <em>Nathema</em>, Scourge could not feel anything<sup><a href="#fn-15-2" class="fn-num">2</a></sup>. No trace of the Force or any living thing. The planet had become a void in the Force itself.

They landed on the planet and departed their ship. It seemed like a city that should be bustling with activity. Nothing was physically destroyed. Buildings still stood and all the streets and speeders were still intact. Except everything was empty and silent. Scourge could make out personal items and small piles of clothes strewn about as if the people they belonged to had vanished - leaving their clothes to fall to the ground. There were not even droids present. Nyriss explained that Vitiate's ritual had even drained the energy out of circuits of every droid on the planet as well. As Nyriss talked, Scourge noticed that even the color and sounds seemed off. Everything seemed desaturated of color and sounds were muffled as they struggled to travel through the thin air. Eventually Scourge became deeply unsettled and even began to feel ill. The absence of the Force disoriented and sickened him. Now he understood. This wasn't about revenge, conquest, or defeating your enemies - the things Scourge embraced the dark side for. This was something else entirely. Destroying your enemies, or even destroying a planet was one thing. But this was beyond destruction. It was un-natural. Vitiate had completely obliterated all life and ripped apart the very fabric of the Force itself. Something deeply disturbing even for a Sith Lord. He tells Nyriss he has seen enough.

They board the shuttle and take off. Scourge still trying to wrap his brain around what he just experienced. As they left the atmosphere Scourge felt the presence of the Force rush back into him and his strength began to return. At the same time he also felt the presence of another being strong in the force that was neither himself or Nyriss. They perform a scan and detect another ship that had just dropped out of hyperspace. They fear the Emperor might have sent someone to follow them. In a split decision, Nyriss arms the ion cannon and fires at the other ship.

Revan drops out of hyperspace above <em>Nathema</em> and instantly starts getting an overwhelming rush of memories and flash backs of being on the planet. The rush causes him to clutch his head in pain. By the time he is able to come to and take back the controls of the ship, T3 is franticly beeping. Revan notices another ship and an alert on the sensors, but it's too late. An ion blast lands on the <em>Ebon Hawk</em> full force. The ship starts careening out of control towards the planet. All the ships systems are flickering. Revan gets T3 to connect up and redirect power to the engines and repulsors. By the time T3 gets the power rerouted they have entered the atmosphere and Revan can see the tops of buildings through the window. T3 squeals as the <em>Hawk's</em> engines rev back up. Revan jerks back on the control stick and is barely able to pull up the nose of the ship. The <em>Hawk</em> slams into the side of a building and begins spinning like a thrown disk before hitting the ground, skipping along the surface, and coming to a stop.

</div>

<hr/>

<p>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-15-1" class="fn-num">1</a>. During his rise to power Vitiate constructed great palace at the site of his childhood home.
  </small>
  <br>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-15-2" class="fn-num">2</a>. When someone becomes strong enough with the force they are able to sense other living things through it. Sometimes this can be so subtle the force user may not even be consciously aware of it all of the time. It's something they become accustomed to. Like, when in orbit above a planet they would be able to feel the presence of the force emanating from the planet below.
  </small>

</p>

## Chapter 16
###### (Scourge & Revan)

Nyriss flew the shuttle back down to the crash site and ordered Scourge to go search the ship. As he approached the wreck and ignited his lightsaber he noticed that the void in the force was even affecting the sound and hue of his saber. He push an access panel on the bottom of the <em>Ebon Hawk</em> opening the loading ramp. Onboard he found an unconscious human male, with blood coming down his forehead and face, sitting in the pilot seat. Scourge noticed the lightsaber hanging from the man's belt and took it attaching it to his own belt. He hoisted the man over his shoulder and carried him back to the shuttle. Nyriss immediately recognized Revan and explained to Scourge he was a Jedi and a Republic spy. She was surprised to see him though<sup><a href="#fn-16-1" class="fn-num">1</a></sup>. They set out for <em>Dromund Kaas</em> and Nyriss tasked Scourge with interrogating the Jedi.

...

<hr/>

<p>
  <small class="fn">
    <a name="fn-16-1" class="fn-num">1</a>. The last Nyriss had heard of Reven was five years prior when he was imprisoned by the Emperor and sentenced to death.
  </small>

</p>
